
(20240923).

# How To convert `ROBOT.urdf.xacro` to `ROBOT.urdf`?

Terminal command to convert the `ROBOT.urdf.xacro` to `ROBOT.urdf` (open a terminal inside its folder).

```
rosrun xacro xacro --inorder -o ./niryo_one.urdf ./niryo_one.urdf.xacro
```

The above command is used to convert a `.xacro` file (`niryo_one.urdf.xacro`) into a `URDF` file (`niryo_one.urdf`), using the `--inorder` option.

Command Breakdown:

- `rosrun xacro xacro`: Invokes the `xacro` command using `rosrun`, which is part of the `xacro` package in ROS.

- `--inorder`: Ensures that the processing of macros follows the order in which they appear in the Xacro file. This is recommended for newer Xacro versions and is sometimes necessary to ensure macros are processed correctly, especially in more complex models.

- `-o ./niryo_one.urdf`: The `-o` flag specifies the **output** file (`niryo_one.urdf`), which will be generated by converting the `.xacro` file.

- `./niryo_one.urdf.xacro`: The input `.xacro` file, which contains the robot description with macros.



## How to generate urdf form xacro 
(from dvrk code, dvrk_model/Readme.md, seems no difference with the above command.)

```
rosrun xacro xacro mtm_right_only.urdf.xacro > mtm_right_only.urdf
rosrun xacro xacro <input.xacro> -o <output.urdf> //(Syntax from ChatGPT)
```

Command Breakdown:

- `rosrun xacro xacro`: Runs the `xacro` command using `rosrun` to process the `.xacro` file.
- `mtm_right_only.urdf.xacro`: The **input** `.xacro` file that defines the robot description.
- `>`: Redirects the **output** of the command to a file.
- `mtm_right_only.urdf`: The **output** file where the `URDF` is stored.

## Note

An example of robot URDF source files can be found here [niryo_one_ros](https://github.com/NiryoRobotics/niryo_one_ros).


------
Created on 2024-09-23.
