# How To create a customized ROS msg in MATLAB?

[MATLAB Help](https://www.mathworks.com/help/ros/ug/create-custom-messages-from-ros-package.html)

## step-1. Place your custom messages in a location and note the folder path. 

It is recommended to put all your custom message definitions in a single packages folder.

```
% folderpath = 'c:\MATLAB\custom_msgs\packages';
folderpath = '/home/teng/MATLAB/custom_msgs/packages';
```

The above cmd no need to run, but you need to find your custom msg package folder in `catkin_ws`, and better to copy it to a single package folder in MATLAB. For example, my custom msg is located in `/home/teng/catkin_ws2/src/phantom_omni/teng4pkg_msgs`, then I copy the package folder `teng4pkg_msgs` into the MATLAB path `/home/teng/MATLAB/custom_msgs/` where all the custom ROS msg definitions to be used in MATLAB will be collected here in the future.

## step-2. In MATLAB, run the command to create custom msg for MATLAB, 

```
% rosgenmsg('c:\MATLAB\custom_msgs')
rosgenmsg('/home/teng/MATLAB/custom_msgs/')
```

Matlab will run and show the following info if successful,

> rosgenmsg('/home/teng/MATLAB/custom_msgs/')
> Identifying message files in folder '/home/teng/MATLAB/custom_msgs'..Done.
> Validating message files in folder '/home/teng/MATLAB/custom_msgs'..Done.
> [1/1] Generating MATLAB interfaces for custom message packages... Done.
> Running catkin build in folder '/home/teng/MATLAB/custom_msgs/matlab_msg_gen_ros1/glnxa64'.
> Build in progress. This may take several minutes...
> Build succeeded.build_log. 


To use the custom messages in Matlab, follow these steps: 

**1. Add the custom message folder to the MATLAB path by executing:**

```
addpath('/home/teng/MATLAB/custom_msgs/matlab_msg_gen_ros1/glnxa64/install/m')
savepath
```

**Note**, the above cmd may need to run each time you restart MATLAB (not tested), But it is ok.
 
**2. Refresh all message class definitions, which requires clearing the workspace, by executing:**

```
clear classes
rehash toolboxcache
```
 
**3. Verify that you can use the custom messages.**

Enter "rosmsg list" and ensure that the output contains the generated custom message types.

```
rosmsg list
```

It will show a long list including your custom msg types. For example, mine is,

> teng4pkg_msgs/Arm_State                                        
> teng4pkg_msgs/PoseCartesian6DOF                                
> teng4pkg_msgs/Vector7DOF

**4. Check the details of a specific msg type**

```
% custommsg = rosmessage('B/Standalone')
custommsg = rosmessage('teng4pkg_msgs/PoseCartesian6DOF')
```

> custommsg = 
>   ROS PoseCartesian6DOF message with properties:
>     MessageType: 'teng4pkg_msgs/PoseCartesian6DOF'
>               X: 0
>               Y: 0
>               Z: 0
>               A: 0
>               B: 0
>               G: 0
>   Use showdetails to show the contents of the message

Bingo. All done. Now you can use the custom msg in Matlab.

## Debugging.

Matlab may need to configure ROS first. If so, first run this cmd in a Ubuntu terminal.

```
whereis python #Find the location of python in your pc.
sudo apt install python3.8-venv
```
Then, in MATLAB go to find `Home->Preferences->ROS Toolbox`, click button `Open ROS Toolbox Preferences`. put the path (e.g., mine is `/usr/bin/python3.8`) in the 'browse' line, and click `Recreate Python Environment`. Done.


--------
Created on 2024-10-01. 
