---
title: 'How To generate a triangular mesh plane in Blender for Unity?'
date: 2025-01-29
permalink: /posts/20250129/
tags:
  - Blender
  - Plane
  - Triangulate Mesh
  - OBJ
  - Unity
---

(20250129).

# How To generate a triangular mesh plane in Blender for Unity?

In Unity, the default plane mesh is a 10x10 mesh (to be precisely 11x11 points). Sometimes you may need a plane mesh with more dense points, e.g., 50x50, 100x100, or even more, such that you can render a cloth plane with more details. Here below are the steps for generating a 100x100 mesh plane in Blender and exporting it as an OBJ file which can be used in Unity.

## Steps to generate OBJ file from blender.

1. Open Blender in Ubuntu: `cd blender-3.0.0-linux-x64/`, `./blender`.
2. `A` to select all.
3. `Shift+A` to select `Mesh` -> `Plane`. **Note**, the default size of plane is 2m in Blender.
4. Rotate the plane if needed.
5. `TAB` to Edit Mode.
6. Select the plane, right-click, select `Subdivide`, then at the bottom left corner set the `cut numbers` as 99 (for obtaining a plane with 100x100 small squares). **Note**, limits to Max 100 cuts in Blender.
7. Select all vertices, then go to tab `Face` -> `Triangulate Faces`, this will generate triangular meshes on the plane. **Note**, Unity requires triangular mesh instead of quadrilateral mesh.)
8. HOWEVER, the triangular mesh's edges are not always in the same orientation. To obtain mesh edges all with the same orientation, DO NOT use the `Face` -> `Triangulate Faces`. **Instead**, select the plane object, go to the `modifier` (a wrench icon), Add a `Triangulate Modifier`, Set *Quad Method* as `Fixed`, set *N-gon Method* as `Beauty`. Click `Apply`. `TAB` to check the result, and now all edges of the triangular mesh should be with the same orientation.
9. `TAB` to *Object Mode*, `Ctrl+A` to select and apply `All Transforms`.
10. Export to OBJ files: check `SectionOnly`, check `Geometry/Triangulate Faces`, and maybe also try `Keep Vertex Order`.
11. Then click Export. Done.




## Import OBJ file into Unity:
- Remember to check `Read/Write`, and `Apply`. (**Important! Although no Error msgs if not in Unity.**).
- `Import New Assets`, then go to find the OBJ file.
- Directly putting the OBJ file into the target folder in Unity seems also ok and has the same result in my test.


------
Created on 2025-01-29.
